How to use a secret in a job (#59)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/how-tos/adding-a-new-secret-to-ci.md

draft: false
---

If a job needs to access sensitive information, we can seal it into a [Kubernete secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and mount it to the pod which runs the job. There are several OpenShift [clusters in CI build farm](/docs/getting-started/useful-links/#clusters). A user can maintain the secrets in a namespace that the user has access to on `api.ci`. The CI `secret-mirroring` tool can be used to mirror the secrets to other namespaces on all clusters in the build farm. 

> ## Add a new secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add A New Secret
```

Title-case titles and headings

Choose a new namespace, and create a pull request to add a folder with the same name in [release/core-services](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/core-services). The folder should contain the manifests for the namespace and the RBACs regarding to the namespace. If the desired namespace exists already, ask the owners of the namespace if it can be shared. After the pull request is merged, the manifests in the folder will be applied automatically to `api.ci`.

Log into `api.ci` and create the secret in the namespace chosen above.

Use the secret as the source in [the mapping file](https://github.com/openshift/release/tree/master/core-services/secret-mirroring).
The secret and any modification on it afterwards will be populated to the targeting namespace on [all clusters](/docs/getting-started/useful-links/#clusters) in the build farm.

```yaml
- from:
    namespace: some-namespace
    name: source-some-secret
  to:

>     namespace: test-credentials # the suggested namespace holding all secrets used in a step

Reviewer: Should be noted that this is required to be the target today

>     name: target-some-secret # ensure the secret name unique cross all teams in our organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: target-some-secret # a unique identifier for your secret
```

```

> ## Use a secret in a job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use A Secret In A Job
```

> * The most common case is to use secrets in a [step](/docs/architecture/step-registry/#step). In this case, we suggest the user to mirror secrets to `test-credentials` namespace. The pod which runs the step can access the secrets defined in `credentials` stanza of the step definition. see [injecting-custom-credentials](https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/step-registry/#injecting-custom-credentials) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The most common case is to use secrets in a [step](/docs/architecture/step-registry/#step). In this case, we require the user to mirror secrets to `test-credentials` namespace. The pod which runs the step can access the secrets defined in `credentials` stanza of the step definition. see [injecting-custom-credentials](https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/step-registry/#injecting-custom-credentials) for details.
```

> * For a job which is generated from `ci-operator`'s config and does not use steps, we have to use `ci` as the targeting namespace in secret-mirroring. And then mount the secrets via `secrets` stanza in the ci-operator's config, e.g.,

Reviewer: I would rather suggest users always use `steps` - we can omit this section

Reviewer 2: I think we should keep this information (because we *do* have handcrafted jobs), but clearly make this an advanced, not preferred option. Probably under a separate header.

Author: Put them into a new section.
See if the message (do not use them unless there is no other options) is delivered clearly.

```yaml
tests:
- as: "vet"                  # names this test "vet"
  commands: "go vet ./..."   # declares which commands to run
  container:
    from: "src"              # runs the commands in "pipeline:src"
  secrets:
  - mount_path: /secret      # mount path of the extracted files from the secret
    name: secret-name-in-ci  # the secret name in the ci namespace
```

> * For a job which does not even use `ci-operator` at all, i.e. [handcrafted jobs](/docs/how-tos/contributing-openshift-release/#handcrafted-jobs), `ci` is the targeting namespace in secret-mirroring. As stated there, **creating handcrafted jobs is discouraged**. The follow example shows how to use secrets in a job definition:

Reviewer: We should not suggest users to write hand-crafted jobs so this should be omitted.

Reviewer 2: Well we don't suggest it, rather the opposite. The fact is that some teams have handcrafted jobs and we'll have them in the future - I'd much rather have a doc to send to the people that need it than explain them on Slack. Fringe cases unfortunately need docs, too.

```yaml
postsubmits:
  org/repo:
  - name: bar-job
    branches:               # Regexps, only run against these branches.
    - ^master$         
    spec:                   # Valid Kubernetes PodSpec.
      containers:
      - image: docker.io/hello-world
        name: ""
        volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /secret             # mount path of the extracted files from the secret
          name: volume-name
      volumes:
      - name: volume-name
        secret:
          secretName: secret-name-in-ci  # the secret name in the ci namespace
```

## FAQ

> ### Why not use app.ci yet for maintaining the source secrets?

Reviewer: This is kind of a leading question - I don't really think many users will have it.  Maybe something like ...

```
### I heard that the api.ci cluster is deprecated, why does secret mirroring still run there?

We are in the process of turning down the cluster, but cannot migrate the current secret mirroring process. A new solution for secret management will be in place before the cluster is fully removed.
```

Author: Removed FAQ.
Put it as an inline note intead.

draft: false
---

> If a job needs to access sensitive information, we can seal it into a [Kubernete secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and mount it to the pod which runs the job. There are several OpenShift [clusters in CI build farm](/docs/getting-started/useful-links/#clusters). A user can maintain the secrets in a namespace that the user has access to on `api.ci`. The CI `secret-mirroring` tool can be used to mirror the secrets to other namespaces on all clusters in the build farm. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a job needs to access sensitive information, we can seal it into a [Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) and mount it to the pod which runs the job. There are several OpenShift [clusters in CI build farm](/docs/getting-started/useful-links/#clusters). A user can maintain the secrets in a namespace that the user has access to on `api.ci`. The CI `secret-mirroring` tool can be used to mirror the secrets to other namespaces on all clusters in the build farm. 
```

The secret and any modification on it afterwards will be populated to the targeting namespace on [all clusters](/docs/getting-started/useful-links/#clusters) in the build farm.

```yaml
- from:
    namespace: "some-namespace"
    name: "source-some-secret"
  to:
    namespace: "test-credentials"    # the namespace holding all secrets used in a step
    name: "target-some-secret"       # a unique identifier for your secret
```

Note that we are in the process of turning down the cluster `api.ci` which currently is still used for the secret mirroring process. A new solution for secret management will be in place before `api.ci` is fully removed.

## Use A Secret In A Job Step

The most common case is to use secrets in a [step](/docs/architecture/step-registry/#step) of a job. In this case, we **require** the user to mirror secrets to `test-credentials` namespace. The pod which runs the step can access the secrets defined in `credentials` stanza of the step definition. see [injecting-custom-credentials](https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/architecture/step-registry/#injecting-custom-credentials) for details.

## Use A Secret In Non-Step jobs

> This section is used **only** for the jobs that had existed before [Test Step Registry](/docs/architecture/step-registry/) was introduced and have not yet been converted to multistage tests with steps. It is **strongly** suggested to use steps for any new jobs.

Reviewer 2: How about using an [alert shortcode](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/adding-content/shortcodes/#alert) so the warning is more prominent? See e.g https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/how-tos/mirroring-to-quay/#existing-repositories for an example where we already use it.

Author: Updated.
